[New Sample] Apply Unique Values With Alternate Symbols (#692)
Esri/arcgis-runtime-samples-java: symbology/apply-unique-values-with-alternate-symbols/README.md

![ApplyUniqueValuesWithAlternateSymbols](ApplyUniqueValuesWithAlternateSymbols.png)

## Use case

When a layer is symbolized with unique value symbology, you can specify the visible scale range for each unique value. This is an effective strategy to limit the amount of detailed data at smaller scales without having to make multiple versions of the layer, each with a unique definition query.

Once scale ranges are applied to unique values, you can further refine the appearance of features within those scale ranges by establishing alternate symbols to different parts of the symbol class scale range.

## How to use the sample

Zoom in and out of the map to see alternate symbols at each scale. The symbology changes according to the following scale ranges: 1:0-1:5000, 1:5000-1:10000, 1:10000-1:20000. To go back to the initial viewpoint, click "Reset Viewpoint".

## How it works

1. Create a `FeatureLayer` using the service url and add it to the map's list of operational layers.
2. Create two alternate symbols:
   * Create a symbol using `SimpleMarkerSymbol`.
   * Convert the simple marker symbol to a `MultilayerPointSymbol` using `SimpleMarkerSymbol.toMultilayerSymbol()`.

>    * Set the valid scale range through reference properties on the multilayer point symbols by calling `multilayerPointSymbol.referenceProperties = SymbolReferenceProperties(double minScale, double maxScale)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Set the valid scale range through reference properties on the multilayer point symbols by calling `multilayerPointSymbol.setReferenceProperties(new SymbolReferenceProperties(double minScale, double maxScale))`.
```

3. Create a new `UniqueValue`, and add it to a new `UniqueValueRenderer` with `uniqueValueRenderer.getUniqueValues.add(uniqueValue)`.
4. Set the default symbol on the unique value renderer to a multilayer point symbol with `uniqueValueRenderer.setDefaultSymbol(multilayerPointSymbol)`.
5. Set the field name on the unique value renderer with `uniqueValueRenderer.getFieldNames().add(("req_type))`.
6. Apply this unique value renderer to the feature layer with `featureLayer.setRenderer(uniqueValueRenderer)`.

## Relevant API

* MultilayerPointSymbol
* SimpleMarkerSymbol
* SymbolReferenceProperties
* UniqueValue
* UniqueValueRenderer

## About the data

> The [San Francisco 311 incidents layer](https://sampleserver6.arcgisonline.com/arcgis/rest/services/SF311/FeatureServer/0) in this sample displays point features related to crime incidents such as graffiti and tree damage that have been reported by city residents.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [San Francisco 311 incidents layer](https://sampleserver6.arcgisonline.com/arcgis/rest/services/SF311/FeatureServer/0) used in this sample displays point features related to crime incidents such as graffiti and tree damage that have been reported by city residents.
```

# Apply unique values with alternate symbols

Apply a unique value with alternate symbols at different scales.

> ![ApplyUniqueValuesWithAlternateSymbols](ApplyUniqueValuesWithAlternateSymbols.gif)

Reviewer: Let's stick with the .png for this sample. It'll keep the file size down (9mb is hefty for a gif), and I don't think we need it for what this sample is showing.

The sample design will mostly have a gif so that other platforms can see how the sample should run without having have the sample live in front of you: it'll be rare we do include a gif in a sample. For example I tend to only add a gif if there is a very neat visualisation, e.g. the Animate 3D Graphic sample or Animate Images with Image Overlay.

## Use case

When a layer is symbolized with unique value symbology, you can specify the visible scale range for each unique value. This is an effective strategy to limit the amount of detailed data at smaller scales without having to make multiple versions of the layer, each with a unique definition query.

Once scale ranges are applied to unique values, you can further refine the appearance of features within those scale ranges by establishing alternate symbols to different parts of the symbol class scale range.

## How to use the sample

> Zoom in and out of the map to see alternate symbols at each scale. The symbology changes according to the following scale ranges: 0-5000, 5000-10000, 10000-20000. To go back to the initial viewpoint, tap "Reset Viewpoint".

Reviewer: This is totally a nitpick on the design text, but we should use the following notation when referring to scales in plain english (as supposed to using the actual value in code): see https://developers.arcgis.com/documentation/mapping-apis-and-services/reference/zoom-levels-and-scale/

```suggestion
Zoom in and out of the map to see alternate symbols at each scale. The symbology changes according to the following scale ranges: 1:0-1:5000, 1:5000-1:10000, 1:10000-1:20000. To go back to the initial viewpoint, tap "Reset Viewpoint".
```

> Zoom in and out of the map to see alternate symbols at each scale. The symbology changes according to the following scale ranges: 0-5000, 5000-10000, 10000-20000. To go back to the initial viewpoint, tap "Reset Viewpoint".

Reviewer: this happens quite frequently: with samples created for both mobile and desktop versions, the design will often be either mobile or desktop detailed. in this case it was mobile, so we can update this from tap to click for our desktop Java based samples

```suggestion
Zoom in and out of the map to see alternate symbols at each scale. The symbology changes according to the following scale ranges: 0-5000, 5000-10000, 10000-20000. To go back to the initial viewpoint, click "Reset Viewpoint".
```

## How it works

1. Create a `FeatureLayer` using the service url and add it to the map's list of operational layers.

> 2. Create two alternate symbols (a blue square and a yellow diamond) to be used as alternate symbols. To create an alternate symbol:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create two alternate symbols:
```

   a. Create a symbol using `SimpleMarkerSymbol`.

   b. Convert the simple marker symbol to a `MultilayerPointSymbol` using `SimpleMarkerSymbol.toMultilayerSymbol()`.

>    c. Set the valid scale range through reference properties on the multilayer point symbols blue square and yellow diamond by calling `multilayerPointSymbol.referenceProperties = SymbolReferenceProperties(double minScale, double maxScale)`.

Reviewer: can remove excess white space here, and let's keep the code references Java specific. We don't need specific details in the How it Works (the idea being a user can use this in their own application with their own data/code) so I've also removed the mention to the square and diamond here

```suggestion
   a. Create a symbol using `SimpleMarkerSymbol`.
   b. Convert the simple marker symbol to a `MultilayerPointSymbol` using `SimpleMarkerSymbol.toMultilayerSymbol()`.
   c. Set the valid scale range through reference properties on the multilayer point symbols by calling `multilayerPointSymbol.setReferenceProperties(new SymbolReferenceProperties(double minScale, double maxScale))`.
```

3. Create a third multilayer symbol to be used to create a `UniqueValue` class.
4. Create a unique value using the red triangle and the list of alternate symbols.

> 5. Create a `UniqueValueRenderer` and add the unique value.

Reviewer: the design has a little too much specific detail here: for example, reading this, I'm not clear what the 3rd multilayer symbol is or why it's referenced here. We want to capture the main workflow here, not the fine details. 

We can cut that down and simplify it a bit with:

```suggestion
3. Create a new `UniqueValue`, and add it to a new `UniqueValueRenderer` with uniqueValueRenderer.getUniqueValues.add(uniqueValue)` 
```

> 6. Create a purple diamond simple marker and convert it to a multilayer symbol to be used as the default symbol.

Reviewer: this step has already been covered in point 2 as to how to convert a multilayer symbol. let's focus instead on how to set the default symbol as follows in the step below. 

```suggestion
```

> 7. Set the default symbol on the unique value renderer to the purple diamond using `uniqueValueRenderer.defaultSymbol`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Set the default symbol on the unique value renderer to a multilayer point symbol with `uniqueValueRenderer.setDefaultSymbol(multilayerPointSymbol)`.
```

> 8. Set the `uniqueValueRenderer.fieldNames` on the unique value renderer to "req_type".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Set the field name on the unique value renderer with `uniqueValueRenderer.getFieldNames().add(("req_type"))`.
```

> 9. Apply this unique value renderer to the `featureLayer.renderer`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. Apply this unique value renderer to the feature layer with `featureLayer.setRenderer(uniqueValueRenderer)`.
```
